### Email Templates (Trainers: English)

#### Pre-Training (1 week before) Email Sent by Trainer or Member Contact to Trainees

**Note:** For most events, Trainers will **not** need to send this. A similar email will be sent by the Core Team. This template is to be used when Trainers are handling communications for an in-house training. For any questions about how or when to use this template, email [instructor.training@carpentries.org](mailto:instructor.training@carpentries.org).

**Subject:** Information for Your Upcoming Instructor Training with The Carpentries on DATE_TIME

Hello everyone,

Thank you for registering for The Carpentries Instructor Training on **DATE_TIME_TIMEZONE** (Click to see the start time in your timezone). This email contains important information to help you prepare for the training - **please read it carefully and let me know if you have any questions.**

**About Carpentries Instructor Training**

This training is designed for people who want to become certified Carpentries instructors. We recommend that you be familiar with at least one of the technologies that we teach (R, Python, the Unix bash shell, SQL, OpenRefine, spreadsheet software, and/or Git) before taking Instructor Training. This training will not teach any of those subjects, but will instead focus on developing skill and knowledge about evidence-based teaching practices and workshop procedures. 

For more information about what will be covered at this training as well as a sample schedule, check out our [Instructor Training Curriculum](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/).

**Connecting to Your Training** 

This training will be conducted using [ platform, download instructions etc. ] To access the training please use this link: [ link to join ] Password is [ password ].

Please see this [training website/collaborative document] with more details about the event.

**Preparing for Your Training**

Before your training, please visit the [Preparing for Instructor Training page](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/setup.html) for complete instructions. A brief summary of these instructions is as follows

1. Complete our Pre-training Survey. [ **NOTE to Trainer: This list item should include a custom survey link that is generated by the training website template.** ]

1. Select a lesson to use for teaching practice sessions, spending no more than 20-30 minutes to prepare. See ["Recommended Episodes"](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/setup.html) at the bottom of the page

1. Please read the following:
    - ["The Science of Learning"](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/files/papers/science-of-learning-2015.pdf)
    - ["The Carpentries Annual Report"](https://carpentries.org/files/reports/2021%20Carpentries%20Annual%20Report_Final.pdf))

1. [Create a profile in The Carpentries database](https://amy.carpentries.org/forms/request_training/). This is necessary for you to be certified as a Carpentries Instructor. Please select "Profile Creation for Pre-approved Trainees" and enter the code [**NOTE to Trainer: you may use your workshop slug as a registration code.**]

**Checkout: The Instructor Certification Process** 

After your training, you will be asked to complete three follow-up tasks to become a certified Instructor. These requirements are detailed on the [Checkout Instructions page](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/checkout/index.html) and will be discussed at your training. 

**Cancellations and Attendance**

We would like to be able to use all of the seats allocated to us in our membership for this event. If you are unable to attend, please let us know as soon as possible. 

If you miss more than 1 hour of the training, you may be marked absent. Instructor certification cannot be completed without full attendance at an Instructor Training event. If you unexpectedly need to miss more than 1 hour of your event, please contact us. 

More information on The Carpentries [cancellation and makeup policy](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/instructor_training/cancellations_and_makeups.html) is available in The Carpentries Handbook.

If you have any questions about the training, the reading material, or anything else, please get in touch.

We look forward to seeing you!

Best,
[Name]


#### Email after Training Event

Subject: Thanks for attending Carpentries Instructor Training!

Hi everyone, 

Thank you for participating in The Carpentries Instructor training workshop. We really enjoyed having you involved and getting to know you a bit. You are now well on your way towards becoming a certified Carpentries instructor. In order to finish your certification, please finish these tasks (https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/checkout/) by the 90-day deadline. If you have any questions about the checkout process, please contact instructor.training@carpentries.org. 

Looking forward to having you as a Carpentries Instructor!

Best,

[ name ]

#### Reminder Teaching Demo

Subject: The Carpentries teaching demonstration

Hi,

According to the [Teaching Demo Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/teaching-demos) you have signed up to give an online teaching demo on [ date ] at [ time ] (See this link for your local time: [ timeanddate.com link ]). I will be the Trainer running the session.

I wanted to be sure you know that I may give you any segment of the lesson you prepared to teach, so you must be ready to teach any part of your chosen lesson. Some people prepare to teach only 5 minutes from a particular section and they often have to reschedule as they seldom are assigned the section they have prepared for. 

A lesson corresponds to a single line in the lesson tables (https://software-carpentry.org/lessons/ , http://www.datacarpentry.org/lessons/ , and https://librarycarpentry.org/lessons/) and a single repository on GitHub. Some lessons have supplementary modules, but you do not need to be prepared to teach the supplementary modules for your teaching demonstration.

For example, if you have chosen The Unix Shell, I may assign you any episode listed at http://swcarpentry.github.io/shell-novice/.

Please remember -- this is not a high stakes test! This is a friendly opportunity to give and receive feedback on a more polished presentation style. In the event that I ask you to repeat your demo, I will provide this information with clear instructions on what to change in an email to you after the demo. You will only receive qualitative feedback publicly during the demo, not information regarding whether this checkout step is considered complete.

I look forward to seeing you,

[ sender name ] 

#### Trainee Invited to Repeat Teaching Demo

Note to Trainers: Even with a template, these emails can be hard to compose and send! When in doubt, do not hesitate to reach 
out to the Trainer community and/or Core Team for support in deciding, customizing, or responding to questions about these 
messages.


Subject: Carpentries Instructor Training: Teaching Demo

Hi [ trainee name ], 

Thank you for doing a teaching demonstration. While you demonstrated good [ something they did well, e.g. command of the 
subject material], I am inviting you to return for another try at the teaching demo. The primary reason is because
[ reason ]. [ Explanation of what you would like to see instead, and why it is central to Carpentries teaching practices. ]  

We are excited about having you as a Carpentries instructor and we want to have you on board! I know it is hard to make time for these sessions, and I hope you will find the opportunity for additional practice and feedback to be worthwhile.

I have contacted our Core Team to indicate that this session should be repeated. If you are close to the end of your checkout period, you can email instructor.training@carpentries.org to request an extension if you need one.

Please get in touch with questions!

Best wishes,

[ sender name ] 



#### Trainee Passed Teaching Demo

Subject: Carpentries Instructor Training: Teaching Demo

Hi [ trainee name ], 

I’m happy to say that you have passed your teaching demonstration! You demonstrated a [good command of the subject material and a solid understanding of The Carpentries teaching methods]. We are excited about having you as a Carpentries Instructor. 

I’ve forwarded this information to our Core Team. If this was the last step in your Instructor Training checkout, you should hear from them within about a week. 

Welcome to The Carpentries Instructor community!

Best wishes,

[ sender name ] 

### Email Templates (Trainers: Spanish)

#### Bilingual Demo Session Reminder Email

Subject: Carpentries instructor training: Teaching Demo

Hello,

Thanks for signing up to complete your “Teaching Demo” as part of the instructor certification process.  We will meet on [ Insert Date ] at [ Insert Time ] in this Zoom videoconferencing room (insert zoom link here). Please read this short bi-lingual description of how Teaching Demo session works (https://github.com/carpentries/latinoamerica/blob/master/traducciones/demo.md#). Disclaimer: I understand Spanish better than I speak it. So, I will talk in Spanish as much as I can, but I will most likely give feedback about your teaching in English.

Please let me know if you have any questions or concerns.

Hola,

Gracias por inscribirte para completar tu demostración de enseñanza como parte del proceso de certificación para instructores. Nos reuniremos [ Insert Date ] [ insert time ] aquí: (insert zoom link here). Por favor, lee [ésta breve descripción bilingüe](https://github.com/carpentries/latinoamerica/blob/master/traducciones/demo.md#) de cómo funciona la sesión de demostración de enseñanza aquí: (https://github.com/carpentries/latinoamerica/blob/master/traducciones/demo.md#). Aviso: Entiendo el español mejor de lo que hablo. Por lo tanto, voy a hablar en español un poco, pero es muy probable que les dé comentarios sobre su enseñanza en Inglés.

Por favor, hazme saber si tienes alguna pregunta o inquietud.

Best/Saludos,

[ sender name ]


#### Spanish: Trainee Invited to Repeat Teaching Demo

Nota a los Trainers: Incluso con un template, este tipo de emails son difíciles de redactar y enviar! Si tienes preguntas, no dudes en contactar con la comunidad de Trainers y/o nuestro personal para tomar decisiones, personalizar o responder preguntas sobre estos mensajes.


Subject: Formación para instructor de las Carpentries: Demostración de enseñanza

Hola [nombre del aprendiz],

Gracias por realizar tu demostración de enseñanza. A pesar de que has demostrado un buen [algo que hizo bien, puntos positivos, e.g. conocimiento de los materiales de enseñanza], me gustaría invitarte a realizar de nuevo la demostración de enseñanza. La razón principal es [razón]. [Explicar lo que te gustaría ver en el/la candidato/a, y por qué es fundamental de acuerdo a las prácticas educativas de Carpentries].

Esta no ha sido una decisión fácil de tomar -- nos encantaría tenerte como instructor en Carpentries! Sé que es complicado hacer tiempo para este tipo de sesiones pero espero que consideres este tiempo adicional de práctica y feedback como una oportunidad.

Me he puesto en contacto con nuestro personal de checkout indicando que esta sesión debe repetirse. Si estás cerca de tu periodo de checkout, puedes enviar un email a instructor.training@carpentries.org para solicitar una extensión si la necesitas.

No dudes en ponerte en contacto si tienes cualquier pregunta!

Saludos,

[nombre del remitente]



#### Spanish: Trainee Did Pass Teaching Demo

Subject: Formación para instructor de las Carpentries: Demostración de enseñanza

Hola [nombre del aprendiz],

Me alegra informarte que has pasado tu demostración de enseñanza. Has demostrado un buen dominio del contenido de los materiales y de las metodologías de enseñanza de las Carpentries, por tanto, es un placer recibirte como instructor/a en las Carpentries. Ya he comunicado esta información a nuestro Core Team. Si esta fue la última parte de tu proceso de certificación, recibirás tu certificado oficial de las Carpentries junto con las instrucciones para inscribirte para impartir talleres en una semana aproximadamente. Si aún tienes que completar algún paso en tu proceso de certificación, asegúrate de completarlos antes de la fecha límite. Si tienes alguna pregunta, por favor envía un correo a instructor.training@carpentries.org.

Bienvenida/o a la comunidad de las Carpentries.

Saludos,

[nombre del remitente]
