# The Carpentries Terms and Conditions

**Last updated:** 2022-01-15

The Carpentries teaches foundational coding and data science skills to
researchers worldwide. We are a fiscally-sponsored project of Community
Initiatives, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organisation. The Carpentries is a diverse,
global community that includes
[Instructors](https://carpentries.org/instructors/), helpers,
[Trainers](https://carpentries.org/trainers),
[Maintainers](https://carpentries.org/maintainers),
[Mentors](https://carpentries.org/mentors), community champions, [member
organisations](https://carpentries.org/members), supporters, and workshop
organisers. We ask that your participation in the Carpentries community follows
our [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).
Additionally, we provide you with these Terms and Conditions to advise and
inform you of the legal obligations you assume when you engage with The
Carpentries community or otherwise access our Services.

Please read the Terms and Conditions carefully. The Terms and Conditions
(“Agreement”) constitute a legal agreement between you and The Carpentries.

Section 15 of this Agreement contains provisions that govern how claims that you
and we have against each other are resolved, including, without limitation, any
claims that arose or were asserted before the effective date of this agreement.
In particular, Section 15 sets forth our Arbitration Agreement which will, with
limited exceptions, require disputes between us to be submitted to binding and
final arbitration. Unless you opt out of the Arbitration Agreement: (1) you will
only be permitted to pursue claims and seek relief against us on an individual
basis, not as a plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action
or proceeding; and (2) you are waiving your right to seek relief in a court of
law and to have a jury trial on your claims. Please see Section 15 for more
information regarding this Arbitration Agreement, the possible effects of this
Arbitration Agreement, and how to opt out of the Arbitration Agreement.

## 1. Purpose

As a fiscally-sponsored project of Community Initiatives, a 501(c)(3) non-profit
organization, The Carpentries and its lesson programs (“The Carpentries,”
“Software Carpentry”, “Data Carpentry”, “Library Carpentry”, “The Carpentries
Incubator”, “The Carpentries Lab”, “we,” “us,” or “our”) teaches pedagogy,
coding and data science skills to researchers worldwide via in-person and online
workshops. By using The Carpentries website and any of the information and
services offered through the website (“Services”), you agree to be bound by this
Agreement. The success of the Services, however, depends on the adherence to the
terms of this Agreement by you and other Users (collectively “you,” “your,” or
“Users”). While we will do our best to enforce the terms of this Agreement, we
cannot warrant or represent that other Users will in fact adhere to this
Agreement and cannot act as insurers or accept any liability for their failure
to do so.

## 2. Eligibility
    
By accessing or using the Services in any way, clicking on a button or taking
similar action to signify your affirmative acceptance of this Agreement, you
hereby represent that:

1.  You have read, understand, and agree to be bound by this Agreement and any
    future amendments and additions to this Agreement as published from time to
    time at this link or through the Services;
2.  You are 16 years of age or older;
3.  You have the authority to enter into the Agreement personally. Except as
    otherwise provided herein, if you do not agree to be bound by the Agreement,
    you may not access or use the Services; and,
4.  You will comply with all applicable laws, including those of the country,
    state and city in which you are present while using the Services.

## 3. Access
    
1.  **Access.** By entering into this Agreement, you will be granted a revocable
    license to access the website and certain Services without charge. Your
    access privileges, however, are conditioned on your adherence to the terms
    of this Agreement. We reserve the right to temporarily deny you access to
    the Services or permanently terminate your access privileges at any time if,
    in our sole discretion, you have failed to abide by the terms of this
    Agreement or appear to us likely to do so. By agreeing to grant you access,
    we do not obligate ourselves to do so or to maintain the Services, or to
    maintain it in its present form, and we expressly reserve the right to
    modify, suspend, or terminate your access privileges.

2.  **Prohibited Uses.** You understand, acknowledge and agree that any access
    or use of the Services shall be for your personal, non-commercial use only,
    and that you will not commercially exploit any portion of the Services.

3.  **Privileges Nontransferable.** Your access privileges may not be
    transferred by you to any third parties.

4.  **Passwords and Security.** You agree not to disclose to anyone your
    confidential password and to notify us immediately if there has been a
    breach of your security that affects our Services.

## 4.  Acceptable Use Policy

By using the Services, you agree that:

1.  You will only use the Services for lawful purposes, and not for deceptive or
    fraudulent purposes; you will not send or store any unlawful material.
2.  You will not use the Services to cause nuisance, annoyance or inconvenience.
3.  You will follow The Carpentries’s [Code of
Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html)
at all times while using the Services.
4. Except where allowed by the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution
   License, you will not use the Services, or any content accessible through the
   Services, for any commercial purpose.
5. You will not violate the publicity or privacy rights of another individual.
6. You will not contact, advertise to, solicit or sell to, any Users. You will
   not attempt to extract, compile, or use any personal information, including
   but not limited to the names or email addresses, about the Users that are
   accessible from our Services.
7. Except where allowed by the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution
   License, you will not copy or distribute any content displayed through the
   Services.
8. Except where allowed by the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution
   License, you will not create or compile, directly or indirectly, any
   collection, compilation, or other directory from any content displayed
   through the Services except for your personal, noncommercial use.
9. The information you provide to us or otherwise communicate with us is
   accurate.
10. You will not use the Services in any way that could damage, disable,
    overburden or impair any of our servers, or the networks connected to any of
    our servers.
11. You will not attempt to gain unauthorized access to any part of the Services
    and/or to any service, account, resource, computer system and/or network
    connected to any of our servers.
12. You will not deep-link to the Services or access the Services manually or
    with any robot, spider, web crawler, extraction software, automated process
    and/or device to scrape, copy or monitor any portion of the Services or any
    content on the Services.
13. You will report any errors, bugs, unauthorized access methodologies or any
    breach of our intellectual property rights that you uncover in your use of
    the Services.
14. You will not impersonate another person, act as another entity without
    authorization, or create multiple accounts.
15. Your self-submitted content (“User Content”) does not contain material that
    solicits personal information from anyone under 18 or exploits people under
    the age of 18 in a sexual or violent manner, and does not violate any
    federal or state law concerning child pornography or otherwise intended to
    protect the health or wellbeing of minors
16. Your User Content does not violate any state or federal law designed to
    regulate electronic advertising;
17. Your User Content does not contain pictures, data, audio or visual files, or
    any other content that is excessive in size, as determined by us at our sole
    discretion.

## 5. Information on our Services
    
While we will always use our best efforts to ensure the accuracy and
completeness of information provided on our Services, we cannot guarantee the
accuracy, adequacy, quality, or suitability of any data on our Services and
expressly disclaim liability for errors and omissions in the contents of our
Services. Any use or reliance on any content or materials posted via the
Services or obtained by you through the Services is at your own risk. Any link
to a website or phone number owned by a third party does not constitute an
endorsement, approval, association, sponsorship, or affiliation with the linked
site or phone number.

## 6. User Submissions and Content
 
We may provide you with interactive opportunities through the Services for which
you may submit content. You represent and warrant that you are the owner of, or
otherwise have the right to provide, all User Content that you submit, post
and/or otherwise transmit through the Services. Pursuant to Creative Commons
licensing terms ([CC BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)), you
hereby grant us a perpetual, irrevocable, transferable, fully paid,
royalty-free, non-exclusive, worldwide, fully sublicensable right and license to
use, copy, display, publish, modify, remove, publicly perform, translate, create
derivative works, distribute and/or otherwise use the User Content in connection
with our activities and in all forms now known or hereafter invented, without
notification to and/or approval by you, except as otherwise required by law.

This means that you cannot revoke permission for The Carpentries to publish,
distribute, store and use such content and to allow others to have derivative
rights to publish, distribute, store and use such content.

**Surveys.** You agree that any submission of any ideas, suggestions, and/or
proposals to us through our suggestion, feedback, or similar mechanisms
(“Surveys”) is at your own risk and that we have no obligations (including
without limitation, obligations of confidentiality) with respect to such
Surveys. You represent and warrant that you have all rights necessary to submit
the Surveys and you hereby grant to us a perpetual, irrevocable, transferable,
fully paid, royalty-free, non-exclusive, worldwide, fully sublicensable right
and license to use, copy, display, publish, modify, remove, publicly perform,
translate, create derivative works, distribute and/or otherwise use such
Surveys, except as otherwise required by law.


## 7.Good Samaritan Content Policy & Complaint Procedures.

1. **Policy.** It is the policy of the owners and operators of these Services to
   not tolerate any acts of intellectual property infringement or violations of
   U.S. law or to allow for any child pornography or obscene or defamatory
   material to be posted at these Services. We will do our best, in good faith,
   to purge or otherwise restrict the availability of material that is
   infringing, racist, sexist, obscene, harassing, or otherwise objectionable.
   The provisions of this Section 7 are intended to implement this policy but
   are not intended to impose a contractual obligation on the owners or
   operators of these Services to undertake, or refrain from undertaking, any
   particular course of conduct.

2. **Complaint Procedures.** If you believe that someone has posted material at
   these Services which infringes the intellectual property or other rights of
   third parties or which is in violation of U.S. law or which is racist,
   sexist, obscene, harassing, defamatory, or otherwise objectionable, or which
   constitutes child pornography, we ask you to flag the post to our attention,
   or promptly notify us by email at the following address:
   [security@carpentries.org](mailto:security@carpentries.org). You must use
   this address if you want to ensure that your complaint is actually received
   by the appropriate person charged with responding to such communications.

3.  In order to respond as quickly as possible to any complaint, please provide
    us with as much detail as possible, including:
    1.  the nature of the right infringed or violated (including the
        registration numbers of any registered copyrights, trademarks or patents
        allegedly infringed);
    2.  all facts which lead you to believe that a right has been violated or
        infringed;
    3.  the precise location where the offending material is located;
    4.  any grounds to believe that the person who posted the material was not
        authorized to do so or did not have a valid defense (including the
        defense of fair use); and
    5.  if known, the identity of the person or persons who posted the
        infringing or offending material.

4.  **Indemnification/Waiver of Certain Rights.** By lodging a complaint, you
    agree that the substance of your complaint shall be deemed to constitute a
    representation made under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of
    California. In addition, you agree, at your own expense, to defend us and
    indemnify us against any liability which we may incur by our response to
    your complaint.

 5.  **Waiver of Claims and Remedies.** We expect visitors to take
     responsibility for their own actions, and, as set forth below in sections
     13 and 14, cannot assume liability for any acts of users or third parties
     which take place at these Services. By this Agreement, you acknowledge that
     in establishing a complaint procedure we are taking on the role of a Good
     Samaritan and, in order to allow us to do our best, in good faith, to purge
     or otherwise restrict the availability of material that is infringing,
     racist, sexist, obscene, harassing, or otherwise objectionable, you agree
     to waive any claims or remedies which you might otherwise be able to make
     against us under any theory of law (including, but not limited to,
     intellectual property laws) arising out of or relating in any way to the
     content at these Services or our response, or failure to respond, to a
     complaint.

6.  **Investigation/Right to Purge Postings.** You agree that we have the right
    (but not the obligation) to investigate any complaint received and, at any
    time and for any reason, to remove any material which you post to these
    Services, with or without your permission, and with or without cause, in our
    sole discretion. By reserving this right, we do not undertake any
    responsibility in fact to remove content posted online, whether or not a
    complaint has been received.

## 8. Intellectual Property Ownership
    

We (and our licensors, where applicable) shall own all right, title and
interest, including all related intellectual property rights, in and to the
Services. This Agreement is not a sale and does not convey to you any rights of
ownership in or related to the Services, or any intellectual property rights
owned by us. “The Carpentries”, “Software Carpentry”, “Data Carpentry”, and
“Library Carpentry” and their respective logos are our trademarks, and no right
or license is granted to use them. You agree that you will not remove, alter or
obscure any copyright, trademark, service mark or other proprietary rights
notices incorporated in or accompanying the Services.

All The Carpentries’s instructional materials are made available under the
[Creative Commons Attribution
license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). For more information,
see [License](https://docs.carpentries.org/LICENSE.html) information within The
Carpentries’s handbook.

## 9. Copyright Policy
    
We will terminate the account and access rights of any repeat infringer. If you
are a copyright owner or the legal agent of a copyright owner, and you believe
that any User Content infringes on your copyrights, you may submit a
notification pursuant to the Company Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)
Notice. Please see our [DMCA Policy](dmca-policy.md) for more information.


## 10. Privacy
    
We have adopted a Privacy Policy outlining our personal data collection and use
practices. Please refer to it for details about how we collect and use your
personal information. By agreeing to the terms of this Agreement, you are
automatically agreeing to our [Privacy Policy](privacy.md), which is
incorporated herein by reference.

## 11. Third-Party Interactions

The Services may contain links to or display content originating from
third-party websites. Such third-party websites are not under our control. We
are not responsible for nor do we review, approve, monitor, endorse, warrant, or
make any representations with respect to such third-party websites, or their
products or services. When you click on a link to a third-party website, we will
not warn you that you have left our Services and will not warn you that you are
subject to the terms and conditions (including privacy policies) of another
website or destination. You use all links in third-party websites at your own
risk. You should review applicable terms and policies, including privacy and
data gathering practices of any third-party websites, and make whatever
investigation you feel necessary or appropriate before proceeding with any
transaction with any third party.

## 12. Indemnification
    
You agree to indemnify and hold harmless The Carpentries and its officers,
directors, employees, agents and affiliates (each, an “Indemnified Party”), from
and against any losses, claims, actions, costs, damages, penalties, fines and
expenses, including without limitation attorneys’ fees and expenses, that may be
incurred by an Indemnified Party arising out of, relating to or resulting from
(a) your User Content; (b) your misuse of the Services; (c) your violation of
this Agreement; or (d) your violation of any applicable laws, rules or
regulations through or related to the use of the Services. In the event of any
claim, allegation, suit or proceeding alleging any matter potentially covered by
the agreements in this section, you agree to pay for the defense of the
Indemnified Party, including reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by
the Indemnified Party. We reserve the right, at our own cost, to assume the
exclusive defense and control of any matter otherwise subject to indemnification
by you, in which event you will fully cooperate with us in asserting any
available defenses. This provision does not require you to indemnify any
Indemnified Party for any unconscionable commercial practice by such party, or
for such party’s negligence, fraud, deception, false promise, misrepresentation
or concealment, suppression or omission of any material fact in connection with
the Services. You agree that the provisions in this section will survive any
termination of your account, this Agreement, or your access to the Services.

## 13. Disclaimer of Warranties
    

YOU EXPRESSLY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT TO THE FULLEST EXTENT OF LAW, YOUR USE
OF THE SERVICES IS ENTIRELY AT YOUR OWN RISK. CHANGES ARE PERIODICALLY MADE TO
THE SERVICES AND MAY BE MADE AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE TO YOU. THE SERVICES ARE
PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. WE MAKE NO WARRANTIES OR
REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE ACCURACY, RELIABILITY, COMPLETENESS OR TIMELINESS OF
THE CONTENT MADE AVAILABLE THROUGH THE SERVICES, OR THE TEXT, GRAPHICS OR LINKS.

WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL OPERATE ERROR-FREE OR THAT THE SERVICES
ARE FREE OF COMPUTER VIRUSES AND OTHER HARMFUL MALWARE. IF YOUR USE OF THE
SERVICES RESULTS IN THE NEED FOR SERVICING OR REPLACING EQUIPMENT OR DATA, WE
SHALL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THOSE ECONOMIC COSTS.

## 14. Limitation of Liability
    

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY (WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR
OTHERWISE) SHALL THE CARPENTRIES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR (A) ANY
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, LOST SALES OR BUSINESS, LOST DATA OR DATA BREACH, OR (B)
FOR ANY DIRECT DAMAGES, COSTS, LOSSES OR LIABILITIES (INCLUDING ATTORNEYS’ FEES)
IN EXCESS OF THE FEES ACTUALLY PAID BY YOU IN THE TWO (2) MONTHS PRECEDING THE
EVENT GIVING RISE TO YOUR CLAIM OR, IF NO FEES APPLY, ONE HUNDRED ($100) U.S.
DOLLARS. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION ALLOCATE THE RISKS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE PARTIES, AND THE PARTIES HAVE RELIED ON THESE LIMITATIONS IN
DETERMINING WHETHER TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT. Some states do not allow the
exclusion of implied warranties or limitation of liability for incidental or
consequential damages, which means that some of the above limitations may not
apply to you. IN THESE STATES, OUR LIABILITY WILL BE LIMITED TO THE GREATEST
EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW.

WE MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES, OR ANY
OTHER ITEMS OR SERVICES PROVIDED BY US, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
IMPLIED WARRANTY ARISING BY USAGE OF TRADE, COURSE OF DEALING OR COURSE OF
PERFORMANCE, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF NON-INFRINGEMENT. YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE
SERVICES (INCLUDING ANY SERVERS OR OTHER HARDWARE, SOFTWARE AND ANY OTHER ITEMS
USED OR PROVIDED BY US IN CONNECTION WITH THE SERVICES) ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND
THAT WE MAKE NO WARRANTY THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE FREE FROM BUGS, FAULTS,
DEFECTS OR ERRORS OR THAT ACCESS TO THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED.

## 15. Dispute Resolution
    
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING SECTION CAREFULLY. IT REQUIRES YOU TO ARBITRATE
DISPUTES WITH US AND LIMITS THE MANNER IN WHICH YOU CAN SEEK RELIEF. THIS
SECTION 15 OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE REFERRED TO AS THE “ARBITRATION
AGREEMENT.”

1.  **Scope of Arbitration Agreement.** You agree that any dispute or claim
    relating in any way to your access or use of the Services or as a consumer
    of our services, to any advertising or marketing communications regarding us
    or our Services, to any products or services sold or distributed through the
    Services that you received as a consumer, or to any aspect of your
    relationship or transactions with us as a consumer of our services will be
    resolved by binding arbitration, rather than in court, except that (1) you
    may assert claims in small claims court if your claims qualify, so long as
    the matter remains in such court and advances only on an individual
    (non-class, non-representative) basis; and (2) you or The Carpentries may
    seek equitable relief in court for infringement or other misuse of
    intellectual property rights (such as trademarks, trade dress, domain names,
    trade secrets, copyrights, and patents). This Arbitration Agreement shall
    apply, without limitation, to all claims that arose or were asserted before
    the Effective Date of this Agreement. IF YOU AGREE TO ARBITRATION WITH THE
    CARPENTRIES, YOU ARE AGREEING IN ADVANCE THAT YOU WILL NOT PARTICIPATE IN OR
    SEEK TO RECOVER MONETARY OR OTHER RELIEF IN ANY SUCH CLASS, COLLECTIVE,
    AND/OR REPRESENTATIVE LAWSUIT. INSTEAD, BY AGREEING TO ARBITRATION, YOU MAY
    BRING YOUR CLAIMS AGAINST US IN AN INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION PROCEEDING. IF
    SUCCESSFUL ON SUCH CLAIMS, YOU COULD BE AWARDED MONEY OR OTHER RELIEF BY AN
    ARBITRATOR.

2.  **Arbitration Rules and Forum.** This Arbitration Agreement is governed by
    the Federal Arbitration Act in all respects. To begin an arbitration
    proceeding, you must send a letter requesting arbitration and describing
    your claim to The Carpentries ℅ Community Initiatives, 1000 Broadway, Suite
    #480 • Oakland, California 94607. . The arbitration will be conducted by
    JAMS under its rules and pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. Disputes
    involving claims and counterclaims under $250,000, not inclusive of
    attorneys’ fees and interest, shall be subject to JAMS’s most current
    version of the Streamlined Arbitration Rules and procedures available at
    [http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-streamlined-arbitration/](http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-streamlined-arbitration/);
    all other claims shall be subject to JAMS’s most current version of the
    Comprehensive Arbitration Rules and Procedures, available at
    [http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-comprehensive-arbitration/](http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-comprehensive-arbitration/).
    JAMS’s rules are also available at
    [http://www.jamsadr.com](http://www.jamsadr.com) (under the Rules/Clauses
    tab) or by calling JAMS at 800-352-5267. Payment of all filing,
    administration, and arbitration fees will be governed by JAMS’s rules. If
    the arbitrator finds that you cannot afford to pay JAMS’s filing,
    administrative, hearing and/or other fees and cannot obtain a waiver of fees
    from JAMS, we will pay them for you. In addition, we will reimburse all such
    JAMS’s filing, administrative, hearing and/or other fees for claims with an
    amount in controversy totaling less than $10,000. If JAMS is not available
    to arbitrate, the parties will select an alternative arbitral forum. You may
    choose to have the arbitration conducted by telephone, video conference,
    based on written submissions, or in person in the country where you live or
    at another mutually agreed location.

3.  **Arbitrator Powers.** The arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local
    court or agency, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute
    relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability or formation
    of this Arbitration Agreement including, but not limited to any claim that
    all or any part of this Arbitration Agreement is void or voidable. The
    arbitration will decide the rights and liabilities, if any, of you and The
    Carpentries. The arbitration proceeding will not be consolidated with any
    other matters or joined with any other proceedings or parties. The
    arbitrator will have the authority to grant motions dispositive of all or
    part of any claim or dispute. The arbitrator will have the authority to
    award monetary damages and to grant any non-monetary remedy or relief
    available to an individual under applicable law, the arbitral forum’s rules,
    and this Agreement (including this Arbitration Agreement). The arbitrator
    will issue a written statement of decision describing the essential findings
    and conclusions on which any award (or decision not to render an award) is
    based, including the calculation of any damages awarded. The arbitrator
    shall follow the applicable law. The arbitrator has the same authority to
    award relief on an individual basis that a judge in a court of law would
    have. The arbitrator’s decision is final and binding on you and The
    Carpentries.

4.  **Waiver of Jury Trial.** YOU AND THE CARPENTRIES WAIVE ANY CONSTITUTIONAL
    AND STATUTORY RIGHTS TO SUE IN COURT AND RECEIVE A JUDGE OR JURY TRIAL. You
    and The Carpentries are instead electing to have claims and disputes
    resolved by arbitration, except as specified in Section 15(a) above. There
    is no judge or jury in arbitration, and court review of an arbitration award
    is limited.

5.  **Waiver of Class or Consolidated Actions.** YOU AND THE CARPENTRIES AGREE
    TO WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO RESOLVE CLAIMS WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS ARBITRATION
    AGREEMENT ON A CLASS, COLLECTIVE, OR REPRESENTATIVE BASIS. ALL CLAIMS AND
    DISPUTES WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS ARBITRATION AGREEMENT MUST BE ARBITRATED
    ON AN INDIVIDUAL BASIS AND NOT ON A CLASS BASIS. CLAIMS OF MORE THAN ONE
    USER CANNOT BE ARBITRATED OR LITIGATED JOINTLY OR CONSOLIDATED WITH THOSE OF
    ANY OTHER USER. If, however, this waiver of class or consolidated actions is
    deemed invalid or unenforceable with respect to a particular claim or
    dispute, neither you nor The Carpentries is entitled to arbitration of such
    claim or dispute. Instead, all such claims and disputes will then be
    resolved in a court as set forth in Section 16.

6.  **Opt Out.** You may opt out of this Arbitration Agreement. If you do so,
    neither you nor The Carpentries can force the other to arbitrate as a result
    of this Agreement. To opt out, you must notify The Carpentries in writing no
    later than 30 days after first becoming subject to this Arbitration
    Agreement. Your notice must include your name and address, your email
    address (if you have one), and a CLEAR statement that you want to opt out of
    this Arbitration Agreement. You must send your opt-out notice to:
    [privacy@carpentries.org](mailto:privacy@carpentries.org). If you opt out of
    this Arbitration Agreement, all other parts of this Agreement will continue
    to apply to you. Opting out of this Arbitration Agreement has no effect on
    any other arbitration agreements that you may have entered into with us or
    may enter into in the future with us.

7.  **Survival.** This Arbitration Agreement will survive any termination of
    your relationship with us.

8.  **Modification.** Notwithstanding any provision in the Agreement to the
    contrary, we agree that if we make any future material change to this
    Arbitration Agreement, it will not apply to any individual claim(s) that you
    had already provided notice of to us.

## 16. Exclusive Venue
    
To the extent the parties are permitted under this Agreement to initiate
litigation in a court, both you and The Carpentries agree that all claims and
disputes arising out of or relating to the Agreement will be litigated
exclusively within the State of California for courts situated in Alameda
County, California, or in federal court for the Northern District of California.


## 17. Termination
    
At its sole discretion, we may modify or discontinue the Services, or may
modify, suspend or terminate your access to the Services, for any reason, with
or without notice to you and without liability to you or any third party. In
addition to suspending or terminating your access to the Services, we reserve
the right to take appropriate legal action, including without limitation
pursuing civil, criminal or injunctive redress. Even after your right to use the
Services is terminated, this Agreement will remain enforceable against you. All
provisions which by their nature should survive to give effect to those
provisions shall survive the termination of this Agreement.


## 18. General
    
1. **No Joint Venture or Partnership.** No joint venture, partnership,
   employment, or agency relationship exists between you, The Carpentries, or
   any third-party provider as a result of this Agreement or use of the
   Services.

2. **Choice of Law.** This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of
   California consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act, without giving effect
   to any principles that provide for the application of the law of any other
   jurisdiction.

3. **Severability.** Except as otherwise provided herein, if any provision of
   this Agreement is found to be invalid, the invalidity of such provision shall
   not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement, which
   shall remain in full force and effect.

4. **Electronic Communications.** For contractual purposes, you (1) consent to
   receive communications from us in an electronic form; and (2) agree that all
   terms and conditions, agreements, notices, disclosures, and other
   communications that we provide to you electronically satisfy any legal
   requirement that such communications would satisfy if they were in writing.
   This subparagraph does not affect your statutory rights.

5.  **Entire Agreement.** This Agreement is the final, complete and exclusive
    agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and
    supersedes and merges all prior discussions between the parties with respect
    to such subject matter.

## 19. Contact Information
    
* Email: [privacy@carpentries.org](mailto:privacy@carpentries.org)

* Mailing address:

The Carpentries c/o Community Initiatives  
1000 Broadway, Suite #480  
Oakland, CA 94607  
USA

* Contact form:
  [https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/v4RDlibM](https://carpentries.typeform.com/to/v4RDlibM)




## License

Please note our Terms & Conditions are released under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike (CC BY-NC-SA) licence.
