Code of Conduct
===============

Code of Conduct Incident Response Guidelines
--------------------------------------------

NOW Log in to `amy_link`_ to view your profile.
Log in to `your amy profile <amy_link_>`_ to view your profile.

|RST|_ is a little annoying to type over and over, especially
when writing about |RST| itself, and spelling out the
bicapitalized word `the link here <RST_>`_ every time isn't really necessary for
|RST| source readability.

.. |RST| replace:: reStructuredText
.. _RST: https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html

Ext Links
---------------------

Log in to :amy_url:`your profile <>` in AMY.

Visit the `main Carpentries site <main_carpentries_site_>`_


Placeholder text
-------------------------------------------

Tiramisu marzipan jelly sweet croissant. Bonbon caramels gummi bears
apple pie halvah cupcake. Lemon drops pastry fruitcake donut powder.
Sesame snaps cake gingerbread cotton candy marzipan jelly soufflé
caramels. Chocolate jelly beans pastry brownie croissant wafer chocolate
cake sweet. Jelly beans candy danish bonbon cupcake halvah candy canes
jujubes. Candy cheesecake macaroon wafer wafer sugar plum soufflé.
Chocolate bar pastry lollipop powder cookie oat cake jelly beans. Candy
canes muffin jelly cheesecake biscuit chupa chups. Fruitcake lollipop
cotton candy donut chupa chups caramels fruitcake pie donut. Pudding
tootsie roll oat cake sugar plum cookie fruitcake jujubes oat cake.
Brownie dragée fruitcake caramels candy caramels gingerbread muffin.
Jelly chocolate cake pastry bear claw dragée gingerbread sweet dessert
marzipan. Candy croissant oat cake cake chocolate cake jelly liquorice.

Code of Conduct Incident Reporting Guidelines
---------------------------------------------

Tiramisu marzipan jelly sweet croissant. Bonbon caramels gummi bears
apple pie halvah cupcake. Lemon drops pastry fruitcake donut powder.
Sesame snaps cake gingerbread cotton candy marzipan jelly soufflé
caramels. Chocolate jelly beans pastry brownie croissant wafer chocolate
cake sweet. Jelly beans candy danish bonbon cupcake halvah candy canes
jujubes. Candy cheesecake macaroon wafer wafer sugar plum soufflé.
Chocolate bar pastry lollipop powder cookie oat cake jelly beans. Candy
canes muffin jelly cheesecake biscuit chupa chups. Fruitcake lollipop
cotton candy donut chupa chups caramels fruitcake pie donut. Pudding
tootsie roll oat cake sugar plum cookie fruitcake jujubes oat cake.
Brownie dragée fruitcake caramels candy caramels gingerbread muffin.
Jelly chocolate cake pastry bear claw dragée gingerbread sweet dessert
marzipan. Candy croissant oat cake cake chocolate cake jelly liquorice.

Code of Conduct Incident Response Procedure and Enforcement Guidelines
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Tiramisu marzipan jelly sweet croissant. Bonbon caramels gummi bears
apple pie halvah cupcake. Lemon drops pastry fruitcake donut powder.
Sesame snaps cake gingerbread cotton candy marzipan jelly soufflé
caramels. Chocolate jelly beans pastry brownie croissant wafer chocolate
cake sweet. Jelly beans candy danish bonbon cupcake halvah candy canes
jujubes. Candy cheesecake macaroon wafer wafer sugar plum soufflé.
Chocolate bar pastry lollipop powder cookie oat cake jelly beans. Candy
canes muffin jelly cheesecake biscuit chupa chups. Fruitcake lollipop
cotton candy donut chupa chups caramels fruitcake pie donut. Pudding
tootsie roll oat cake sugar plum cookie fruitcake jujubes oat cake.
Brownie dragée fruitcake caramels candy caramels gingerbread muffin.
Jelly chocolate cake pastry bear claw dragée gingerbread sweet dessert
marzipan. Candy croissant oat cake cake chocolate cake jelly liquorice.

Code of Conduct Termed Suspension Guidelines
--------------------------------------------

Tiramisu marzipan jelly sweet croissant. Bonbon caramels gummi bears
apple pie halvah cupcake. Lemon drops pastry fruitcake donut powder.
Sesame snaps cake gingerbread cotton candy marzipan jelly soufflé
caramels. Chocolate jelly beans pastry brownie croissant wafer chocolate
cake sweet. Jelly beans candy danish bonbon cupcake halvah candy canes
jujubes. Candy cheesecake macaroon wafer wafer sugar plum soufflé.
Chocolate bar pastry lollipop powder cookie oat cake jelly beans. Candy
canes muffin jelly cheesecake biscuit chupa chups. Fruitcake lollipop
cotton candy donut chupa chups caramels fruitcake pie donut. Pudding
tootsie roll oat cake sugar plum cookie fruitcake jujubes oat cake.
Brownie dragée fruitcake caramels candy caramels gingerbread muffin.
Jelly chocolate cake pastry bear claw dragée gingerbread sweet dessert
marzipan. Candy croissant oat cake cake chocolate cake jelly liquorice.

Membership Agreement for the Code of Conduct (CoC) Committee
------------------------------------------------------------

Tiramisu marzipan jelly sweet croissant. Bonbon caramels gummi bears
apple pie halvah cupcake. Lemon drops pastry fruitcake donut powder.
Sesame snaps cake gingerbread cotton candy marzipan jelly soufflé
caramels. Chocolate jelly beans pastry brownie croissant wafer chocolate
cake sweet. Jelly beans candy danish bonbon cupcake halvah candy canes
jujubes. Candy cheesecake macaroon wafer wafer sugar plum soufflé.
Chocolate bar pastry lollipop powder cookie oat cake jelly beans. Candy
canes muffin jelly cheesecake biscuit chupa chups. Fruitcake lollipop
cotton candy donut chupa chups caramels fruitcake pie donut. Pudding
tootsie roll oat cake sugar plum cookie fruitcake jujubes oat cake.
Brownie dragée fruitcake caramels candy caramels gingerbread muffin.
Jelly chocolate cake pastry bear claw dragée gingerbread sweet dessert
marzipan. Candy croissant oat cake cake chocolate cake jelly liquorice.

Code of Conduct Committee Governance
------------------------------------

Tiramisu marzipan jelly sweet croissant. Bonbon caramels gummi bears
apple pie halvah cupcake. Lemon drops pastry fruitcake donut powder.
Sesame snaps cake gingerbread cotton candy marzipan jelly soufflé
caramels. Chocolate jelly beans pastry brownie croissant wafer chocolate
cake sweet. Jelly beans candy danish bonbon cupcake halvah candy canes
jujubes. Candy cheesecake macaroon wafer wafer sugar plum soufflé.
Chocolate bar pastry lollipop powder cookie oat cake jelly beans. Candy
canes muffin jelly cheesecake biscuit chupa chups. Fruitcake lollipop
cotton candy donut chupa chups caramels fruitcake pie donut. Pudding
tootsie roll oat cake sugar plum cookie fruitcake jujubes oat cake.
Brownie dragée fruitcake caramels candy caramels gingerbread muffin.
Jelly chocolate cake pastry bear claw dragée gingerbread sweet dessert
marzipan. Candy croissant oat cake cake chocolate cake jelly liquorice.
