Community Session Hosts Handbook
================================

Hosting a community discussion is a great way to meet more people in The
Carpentries community, learn more about the organisation, share your
knowledge, and learn from others\' experiences.

Community discussions are also an important part of our [Instructor
Training Certification
Process](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/checkout/),
also known as \"Checkout.\" As a Community Discussion Host, you will
welcome new InsFtructors to our global community and introduce them to
community discussions as a resource for ongoing support and advice as
they develop their teaching skills.

Community discussions cover a wide range of topics, such as teaching
workshops, developing curricula, building local communities, and
assessing the impact of our workshops globally. There are four types of
discussions:

1.  **Pre- and Post-Workshop Discussions:** For those preparing to teach
    or who have recently taught, to discuss their workshop experience
    with the community.
2.  **Themed Community Discussions:** Focused on specific topics, such
    as teaching your first workshop or community-building strategies.
    Each month, the Community Development Team also hosts **Welcome
    Sessions** for new members to meet the Core Team and learn how to
    get involved.
3.  **Carpentries Conversations:** Hosted by one of our Committees or
    Task Forces to discuss new developments and programs in our
    organisation.
4.  **Regional Community Calls:** Hosted by local and regional
    subcommunities. You can find a list of these calls at the top of the
    [Community Discussions
    Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024).

**Note:** Attending any of these four types of discussions fulfils the
requirement for [Instructor Training Certification
('Checkout')](https://carpentries.github.io/instructor-training/checkout/).

Roles and Responsibilities
--------------------------

A community member can be a community discussion host for any length of
time, based on their availability and interest. Responsibilities
include:

-   Attend a one-hour onboarding session.
-   Sign up to receive relevant communications for this role.
    Instructions are in the Communication and Collaboration Spaces
    section of this handbook.
-   Schedule one or more community discussions during the quarterly
    scheduling period.
-   Facilitate the one-hour discussions you sign up to host.
-   Encourage participation from anyone attending for \"Checkout.\"
    While it\'s not required, we want new members to feel welcome and
    get their questions answered. These attendees will have \"checkout\"
    next to their name on the sign-up list.
-   Complete [a brief form](https://forms.gle/N74pFuGkRLawpCHh7) after
    each session you host. When copying attendance into the form,
    include the word \"checkout\" next to names as listed on the
    Etherpad. The Core Team uses this information to record
    participation in [AMY]{.title-ref}, The Carpentries\' internal
    database, which is how future Instructors get credit for this step.

Onboarding
----------

If you want to become a community discussion host, [email the Community
Development Team](mailto:community@carpentries.org) to let them know.
They will give you the date and time of the next onboarding session.
Onboarding sessions are offered quarterly in multiple time zones as
themed community discussions. You can also refer to a
[video](https://youtu.be/VrWdzlD2dlE) and
[slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mal-KCfz5EaPuXXMCRiYxYsA41qPsWJfnj9ydMo9Y8Q/edit?usp=sharing)
covering the onboarding content. After onboarding, you may want to
attend a community discussion as an observer or co-host before hosting
on your own.

Offboarding
-----------

If you no longer want to be a Community Discussion Host, email the
[Community Development Team](mailto:community@carpentries.org). They
will remove you from the \#discussion-host Slack channel and unsubscribe
you from the mailing list.

Communication and Collaboration Spaces
--------------------------------------

This section lists the communication channels and collaboration spaces
for Community Discussion Hosts. Participants must follow The Carpentries
[code of
conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).
Descriptions of the tools can be found in [the community
glossary](https://github.com/carpentries/community-development/blob/main/glossary.md).

### Community Calendar

After scheduling a call, you will receive a calendar invite at the email
address you used to sign up. All community discussions are also listed
on our [Community
Calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events).

### Etherpad

Here are some useful Etherpads for Community Discussion Hosts:

\-[Community Discussions
Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024): Lists
all upcoming community discussions, where members can sign up and find
session login information.

\-[Pad-of-pads](https://pad.carpentries.org/pad-of-pads): A list of The
Carpentries\' most commonly used Etherpads and resources.

### Messaging and Communication

Slack is the platform used by The Carpentries for real-time and ongoing
communication. Channels help community members collaborate based on the
channel\'s purpose. You can [join The Carpentries Slack
workspace](https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/) to participate in
discussions relevant to your role:

-   **\#discussion-hosts**: A channel for Community Discussion Hosts and
    those interested in hosting discussions.

If you're new to Slack, our [Slack Quick Start
Guide](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/slack-and-email.html#slack-quick-start-guide)
will help you set up your profile and provide an overview of how we use
the platform daily.

### Mailing List

You can find all of The Carpentries mailing lists on
[TopicBox](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/latest). The [Community
Discussion Host mailing
list](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/discussion-hosts) is
specifically for this role.

To join any mailing list, you need to [create a login on the
site](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/latest). After that, you can
browse the groups and select "Join the Conversation" for open mailing
lists or "Request to Join" for those that need admin approval.

Step-by-Step Guides
-------------------

This section provides step-by-step guides for Community Discussion
Hosts.

### Signing Up to Host a Community Discussion

This guide is for signing up to host any community discussion **except
Regional Community Calls**. If you\'re a Community Coordinator wanting
to host a Regional Community Call, please follow the instructions in the
[Signing Up to Host a Regional Community Call
section](discussion_host.md#signing-up-to-host-a-regional-community-call).
To learn more about becoming a Community Coordinator, visit the [FAQs
section](#faq).

-   Each quarter, the Community Development Team will share signup
    instructions via Slack and TopicBox. Check the [Communication and
    Collaboration Spaces
    section](#communication-and-collaboration-spaces) for joining these
    channels.
-   Community Discussion Hosts can sign up using
    [Calendly](https://calendly.com/thecarpentries) during the signup
    period. Calendly allows you to choose dates and times in your time
    zone. Dates already chosen won't show up.

\- After scheduling a discussion on Calendly, the event will
automatically be added to the [Community Discussions
Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024) and the
[Community
Calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events). The
Community Development Team will notify hosts when the sessions are
added. - If you need to schedule a session outside the quarterly period,
fill out the [Request to Schedule and Facilitate Carpentries Community
Discussion
form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSen9_axxQ3_0FN5HjL7cyot9RzTdIGpOU16Wr1eatZblsfU7w/viewform).
The session isn't confirmed until a Community Development Team member
contacts you.

### Signing Up to Host a Regional Community Call

Community Coordinators are in charge of scheduling Regional Community
Calls. Dates and times for these calls are listed at the top of the
[Community Discussions
Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024) along
with links for call notes. If a Community Coordinator wants to list a
Regional Community Call and have it added to The Carpentries Community
Calendar, they should email <community@carpentries.org>. If they want to
add the call to the Community Discussion Etherpad for signups and notes,
they can use [Calendly](https://calendly.com/thecarpentries) during the
signup period as described in the [Signing Up to Host a Community
Discussion Session section](#signing-up-to-host-a-community-discussion).
This will automatically add the event to the Community Calendar and the
Etherpad. To learn more about becoming a Community Coordinator, check
the [FAQs section](#faq).

### Checklist for Hosting a Community Discussion

Community discussions use the [Community Discussions
Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024) for
member signups and note-taking. Regional subcommunities often have their
platforms for call notes, which can be found at the top of the
[Community Discussions
Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024) and in
the [Community
Calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events).

#### Before the Discussion Session

-   Log in at least 5 minutes before the session starts.

-   

    Create a waiting room to control who enters.

    :   -   [Learn how to enable and use a waiting
            room](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/115000332726-Waiting-Room#h_f493a86f-7d08-4e3b-9d6d-9b236fe9cdcd).

-   

    Gain host access.

    :   -   Two days before the event, you'll receive an email from
            Calendly with the host key.
        -   [Learn how to use the host key to claim
            access](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/115001315866).

-   

    Enable closed captioning for accessibility.

    :   -   Zoom provides automatic captioning, but its accuracy may
            vary due to sound quality and accents.
        -   [Learn how to enable automatic
            captioning](https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/207279736-Managing-Zoom-closed-captioning-and-live-transcription-services).

-   Confirm that your co-host (if any) is present and discuss who will
    lead and take notes.

-   If needed, copy template agendas for session types from the bottom
    of the [Community Discussion
    Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024) to
    the session\'s signup space. [Template agendas](#sample-agendas) are
    also available in this handbook.

#### During the Discussion Session

-   Use or adapt the [Script for Starting a \`Community Discussion
    \<\#script-for-starting-a-community-discussion\>]{.title-ref}\_.

-   

    If relevant, follow the sample agendas from the bottom of the [Community Discussion Etherpad](https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024) and in the [resources section](#resources).

    :   -   Follow the agenda but let the discussion flow naturally. Not
            all questions need to be answered by everyone.
        -   The host doesn't have to answer every question; encourage
            participants to help each other.
        -   If someone is attending for training checkout, prompt them
            to ask questions.
        -   Leave time for Q&A and any important announcements at the
            end.

-   Take notes or find someone to take notes.

-   For pre-and post-workshop discussions, if more than 5 workshops are
    represented, consider splitting into two groups using breakout
    rooms. This ensures everyone has enough time to share. Balance the
    groups for diverse participation. [Learn how to set up and use
    breakout
    rooms](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/zoom_rooms.html#creating-breakout-rooms).

#### After the Discussion Session

-   Archive the Etherpad by selecting "Save Revision" (it appears as a
    star in the top right).

-   

    Fill out the [host form](https://forms.gle/N74pFuGkRLawpCHh7).

    :   -   Copy the attendee list (including everyone except no-shows)
            into the form. Make sure to add "checkout" next to those
            attending for checkout.
        -   Submitting this form will email
            <instructor.training@carpentries.org> to record all checkout
            requirements.

-   Clear the session information (date/time, attendees, notes) from the
    Etherpad.

-   (Optional) [Write a blog
    post](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/guides/submit_blog_post.html)
    about interesting points from the discussion.

#### Cancelling a Discussion Session

If you need to cancel a scheduled community discussion due to conflicts,
please contact <community@carpentries.org> as soon as possible. A Core
Team member will help find another host for the event. You can also post
in the [Communication and Collaboration
Spaces](#communication-and-collaboration-spaces) to see if another host
is available.

Resources
---------

### Onboarding Presentation

*This presentation is used during the Community Discussion Host
onboarding session.*

-   [Onboarding presentation with
    notes](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mal-KCfz5EaPuXXMCRiYxYsA41qPsWJfnj9ydMo9Y8Q/edit?usp=sharing)
-   [Onboarding video](https://youtu.be/VrWdzlD2dlE)

### Script for Starting a Community Discussion

*Community Discussion Hosts can use or adapt this script at the start of
their discussions.*

Welcome everyone! My name is \[insert name\], and I am \[role and
affiliation\]. Before we start with introductions, let's go over a few
important details.

-   

    We will use the Etherpad for note-taking. Everyone can take notes during the call, but \[name\] will be our main note-taker.

    :   -   *Host should share the link in chat:*
            <https://pad.carpentries.org/community-sessions-2024>

-   Automated closed captioning is turned on. You can display it using
    the captioning feature.

-   If you have a question, please use the "raise hand" reaction in
    Zoom.

-   

    Everyone participating in The Carpentries activities must follow our Code of Conduct.

    :   -   *Host should share the link in chat:*
            <https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html>

        -   

            Behavior that excludes, intimidates or makes others uncomfortable violates the Code of Conduct. To create a positive learning environment, please:

            :   -   Use welcoming and inclusive language
                -   Respect different viewpoints and experiences
                -   Accept constructive criticism gracefully
                -   Focus on what's best for the community
                -   Be courteous and respectful to other members

        -   

            If you see someone violating the Code of Conduct, please report it to The Carpentries Code of Conduct Committee by filling out this form.

            :   -   *Host should share the link in chat:*
                    <https://goo.gl/forms/KoUfO53Za3apOuOK2>

-   If you are here for Instructor Training Checkout, please add
    "checkout" next to your name on the Etherpad so you get credit for
    attending.

Does anyone have any questions before we begin?

### Sample Agendas

#### Agenda: Pre- and Post-Workshop Discussion Sessions

*Community Discussion Hosts can use this agenda for pre- and
post-workshop discussions. These sessions last 60 minutes. Hosts are
encouraged to guide the discussion as they see fit; here are some
prompts you can use.*

-   

    Welcome, introductions, and a reminder of the Code of Conduct (5 minutes)

    :   -   *See the Script for Starting a Community Discussion
            \<\#script-for-starting-a-community-discussion\>*

        -   

            Attendee introductions:

            :   -   Name, affiliation/position, motivation for attending

-   

    Participants report from previous workshops (10 minutes)

    :   -   Share significant accomplishments and obstacles
        -   Any changes or additions to lesson materials?

-   

    Participants discuss preparation for upcoming workshops (10 minutes)

    :   -   Any specific questions about teaching or lessons?
        -   How are instructors sharing roles? Is there a lead
            instructor, or are you co-instructors?

-   

    Participants discuss instructor training checkout (5 minutes)

    :   -   Questions about the checkout process or workshop
            organisation?
        -   Have you asked a question here yet?

-   

    Breakout Rooms (15 minutes)

    :   -   

            Choose 1-3 of these questions, or add your own:

            :   -   What additional resources would help you in teaching
                    or preparing for a workshop?
                -   Do you find the instructor notes helpful? How do you
                    use them? How could they be improved?
                -   What are you most excited about when teaching with
                    The Carpentries?

-   

    Closing (Main Room) (10 minutes)

    :   -   Report back from breakout rooms

        -   Q&A

        -   

            Relevant announcements:

            :   -   If you want to give feedback on your experience,
                    fill out the attendee feedback form. \[*link:*
                    <https://goo.gl/forms/aNZhcVnq4iPAz4GE3>\]
                -   If you're interested in writing a blog post about
                    your experiences, fill out this form \[*link:*
                    <https://forms.gle/eUQoSPRXrsyBibRf8>\] or email
                    your idea or draft to <community@carpentries.org>.

#### Agenda: Themed Community Discussions and Community Conversations

*Community Discussion Hosts can use this agenda for themed discussions
and conversations.*

Most Community Discussions last 60 minutes and can be structured as
follows:

-   Welcome, Introductions, and Code of Conduct (5 minutes)

-   Presentation from the facilitator or presenting group (20 minutes)

-   Small group breakout sessions for discussion questions (15 minutes)

-   Recap in the main room to discuss responses (10 minutes)

-   Closing Q&A and how to get involved with the topic (5 minutes)

-   

    Relevant announcements (5 minutes):

    :   -   If you want to provide feedback on your experience, fill out
            the attendee feedback form. \[*link:*
            <https://goo.gl/forms/aNZhcVnq4iPAz4GE3>\]
        -   If you're interested in writing a blog post about your
            experiences, fill out this form \[*link:*
            <https://forms.gle/eUQoSPRXrsyBibRf8>\] or email your idea
            or draft to <community@carpentries.org>.

FAQ
---

**What if I\'m hosting a discussion and there are no pre- and
post-workshop debriefs?**

Start by introducing the session and its topic. Share your own
experiences from past or upcoming workshops.

**What if I don't know the answer to a question and no one else does?**

It\'s okay not to have all the answers. Suggest that the person ask
their question on Slack or one of The Carpentries mailing lists. They
can also email <team@carpentries.org> for help.

**What if the host/co-host has a bad internet connection? What if Zoom
fails?**

Test your internet connection beforehand. If you find it\'s not good,
reach out through [our communication
channels](#communication-and-collaboration-spaces) to see if someone
else can host.

**What if no one shows up?**

If no one comes, send a reminder email to those who signed up and wait a
few minutes. If no one arrives by 10 minutes after the start time, fill
out [the host form](https://forms.gle/N74pFuGkRLawpCHh7) to report it.

**What if someone talks too much?**

Set time limits for questions and answers. Ask someone who hasn't spoken
yet to share their thoughts to keep everyone engaged.

**What if there's no co-host/note-taker and the session is full?**

You can take a few notes but don't worry about writing everything down.
Just note important points and links. Encourage participants to add
their notes to the Community Discussions Etherpad.

**What if someone joins late?**

Welcome them and ask them to introduce themselves. If you have time,
offer to stay on the call a few minutes after to summarize what they
missed and answer their questions.

**What if someone doesn't have a headset and has background noise?**

As the host, you can mute participants or ask them to mute themselves.
[Learn more about host features in
Zoom](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/communications/tools/zoom_rooms.html#information-for-event-hosts).

**What if I forget to complete the host questionnaire?**

If you don't fill it out, participants won't have updated profiles, and
it will take time to fix. Please complete the form right after your
session.

**What if someone breaks the Code of Conduct or there's a report of
misconduct?**

Follow [The Carpentries'
guidelines](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/incident-response.html).

**What if someone isn't contributing to the conversation?**

Encourage participation by asking them questions or asking for their
thoughts on a topic. You can also ask everyone for a specific question
they want answered.

**What if someone wants to join my full Community Discussion session for
their instructor checkout?**

They can email you to ask to join, but it's up to you whether to accept
more participants.

**What if someone is loud or talks down to others?**

Remind everyone of the Code of Conduct at the start of the session. Such
behaviour is not allowed, and you can ask the person to leave if needed.

**What if I have trouble understanding someone?**

Ask them to type their questions in the Community Discussions Etherpad
so you can read and respond. You can also ask them to speak up if their
microphone is too soft.

**What if I need a separate Etherpad for note-taking?**

You can take notes on the Community Discussions Etherpad, which will be
archived after each discussion. If you need a new Etherpad, you can
create one by adding a name to the URL: <https://pad.carpentries.org/>.

**How can I become a Community Coordinator?**

A Community Coordinator leads a subcommunity within The Carpentries.
This role is being formalized in the Community Development Program. If
you\'re interested, please email <community@carpentries.org>.

About This Handbook
-------------------

The Community Discussion Host Handbook is a resource for members of The
Carpentries community who are serving as a Community Discussion Host.
This handbook provides information on how to receive relevant
communications and includes step-by-step guides for serving in this
role. The Carpentries Community Development Team manages the content of
this handbook. To provide feedback, please email
<community@carpentries.org>. If you are unfamiliar with any of the terms
used in this handbook, please refer to our [Glossary of
Terms](#glossary).
